doc: note that it is possible to use a read-only token with github authz (#27804)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/admin/repo/permissions.md

A [token that has the prerequisite scopes](../external_service/github.md#github-api-token-and-access) is required in order to list collaborators for each repository to perform a [complete sync](#complete-sync-vs-incremental-sync).

> > NOTE: Both read and write access to the associated repos for permissions syncing are strongly suggested due to GitHub's token scope requirements. Without write permissions, sync will rely only on [user-centric sync](#background-permissions-syncing) and continue working as expected, though Sourcegraph may have out-of-date permissions more frequently.

Reviewer: >sync will rely only on [user-centric sync](#background-permissions-syncing) and continue working as expected

Are you sure and tested? From my memory, unless we can disable repo-centric syncing, it will try to revert permissions which effectively makes user-centric syncing useless.

Author: Error results get discarded here if perms have been sync'd: https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/enterprise/cmd/repo-updater/internal/authz/perms_syncer.go#L741:1-743:5

Author: The error gets bubbled up to [here](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/enterprise/cmd/repo-updater/internal/authz/perms_syncer.go?utm_source=VSCode-1.4.0#L892:1-896:4) and is logged and not actioned

Reviewer: > Error results get discarded here if perms have been sync'd, so user-centric sync results get persisted: https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/enterprise/cmd/repo-updater/internal/authz/perms_syncer.go#L741:1-743:5

Error results only gets discarded on the very first repo-centric sync where there is no prior successful perms sync (i.e. no perms data), and partial results are still stored with the absence of desired user IDs.

Author: Are you sure? Errors are discarded when `!noPerms` => "has perms" according to that code

Reviewer: Oh OK I see, so there are just going to be lots of errors logged, but perms table is untouched?

Author: No perms come from `repo_permissions` ([query](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@b673f433abec2d2204b27a1a78b94f921d293995/-/blob/enterprise/internal/database/perms_store.go?L1463-1473)) which is also updated by user-centric sync, so any repo perm that has been touched by a user-centric sync is safe from being overwritten

Author: > Oh OK I see, so there are just going to be lots of errors logged, but perms table is untouched?

Yeah I think that's the case, and I think we should keep it that way unless we get significant feedback otherwise (probably still want to encourage that tokens have adequate access provided)

I can look into writing up a test case for this tomorrow as well

Reviewer: > No perms come from `repo_permissions` ([query](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@b673f433abec2d2204b27a1a78b94f921d293995/-/blob/enterprise/internal/database/perms_store.go?L1463-1473)) which [is also updated by user-centric sync](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph@b673f433abec2d2204b27a1a78b94f921d293995/-/blob/enterprise/internal/database/perms_store.go?L145-147), so any repo perm that has been touched by a user-centric sync is safe from being overwritten

This is not a safe assumption even with current single-threaded perms syncer, but I think I get the point why the statement in the PR is true (i.e. we given up on errored repo-centric syncing and write nothing back to perms table).

The counter example of the assumption is that the value of `noPerms` is only determined at the time of enqueue, and if there is a user-centric syncing finished (and involves this repo) would actually make `noPerms` be wrong (we don't do correction nor double-checking of `noPerms` state after enqueue.

Reviewer: > > Oh OK I see, so there are just going to be lots of errors logged, but perms table is untouched?
> 
> Yeah I think that's the case, and I think we should keep it that way unless we get significant feedback otherwise (probably still want to encourage that tokens have adequate access provided)
> 
> I can look into writing up a test case for this tomorrow as well

Thanks!

Although I'm actually hesitant to say that we guarantee to only need read-only token for permissions syncing, I'm leaning towards saying read-only token works by chance based on the current implementation.

Author: I wanted to leave it undocumented but there have been so many requests to not provide read access 😅 I think we should officially support it with the caveat noted here, that there is a much higher likelihood of encountering outdated permissions - does that sound like a firm enough trade off?

Author: Both Mike and Emily have expressed that in some orgs, providing write access is simply not an option unfortunately

Reviewer: Totally understand!

I'm just thinking we get write access through GitHub OAuth to every single repository anyway :)

Author: cc @sourcegraph/repo-management :)

Reviewer 2: @unknwon Relatedly, we've received some feedback on our OAuth approach: https://sourcegraph2020.lightning.force.com/lightning/r/Product_Gap__c/a1B3t00000ImGKhEAN/view

Author: > I can look into writing up a test case for this tomorrow as well

On second thought, I think full support warrants some more consideration and likely falls under the purview of the repo management team - I've created an issue and tagged the team on it: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/27872

Reviewer 2: Sounds good! Thank you for your work so far. :)

Reviewer: > @unknwon Relatedly, we've received some feedback on our OAuth approach: https://sourcegraph2020.lightning.force.com/lightning/r/Product_Gap__c/a1B3t00000ImGKhEAN/view

I don't seem to have access to this page 🤔

Reviewer 2: @unknwon Your PM should have access and be able to share it with you! (I'm assuming you don't have a SF login?)

> > NOTE: Both read and write access to the associated repos for permissions syncing are required due to GitHub's token scope requirements. It is possible to not provide write access to all repositories and rely only on [user-centric sync](#background-permissions-syncing), at the cost of potentially having out-of-date permissions more frequently, though this is not recommended.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> NOTE: Both read and write access to the associated repos for permissions syncing are strongly suggested due to GitHub's token scope requirements. Without write permissions, sync will rely only on [user-centric sync](#background-permissions-syncing), and may potentially have out-of-date permissions more frequently. If write access is not possible, however, this is our recommended solution.
```

Author: Ive adjusted this slightly her: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/27804/commits/0aa6b7d12e07e326b09f2684faf6845c721259b6, WDYT?

Reviewer 2: wfm!
